This assignment introduces you to the problem you will implement each week using a different software architecture style. 

Self Checkout Supermarket
Your task is to build a backend for a supermarket self-checkout system. Customers start a 'transaction', scan N items, then pay. Each scanned item is looked up, the price returned, and when the customer payment is complete, the inventory for all bought items is decremented.

By default there are 10 self-checkout stations that can be used concurrently. Each customer buys between 1 and 20 items, and the store has 2K items in its inventory, each with 10000 items in stock at the start of each test.

The checkout system must implement an API for starting a transaction, scanning an item, and completing the transaction. The inventory system would track stock items in a database and report low stock levels when the endpoint  /inventory/low-stock is called.

There also needs to be functionality to track the most popular items being purchased, based on a sliding window of purchased items - eg the last 1000 items with a sliding window of 500. The 10 most popular items in the sliding window results should be written to a database and at the end of the test the latest window can be retrieved by the client calling /analytics/popular-items and listed in the client window. 

/analytics/popular-items

You are provided with a client that has 10 threads representing checkout stations, with each simulating a customer concurrently buying items. The client tracks response times and generates a report at the end of a test showing response time statistics for starting a transaction, scanning an item, and completing a transaction. 

Use the following resources to understand the problem:

Github repo: https://github.com/gortonator/CS6510-2026 Links to an external site.
Clone this repo and build the load-client and mockserver. Run the mockserver in one window and the load-client in another, and you should see results appear after 60 seconds
Examine the OpenAPI spec in the /spec folder. This gives you a precise API specification
Your task this week is to build a monolithic implementation of this API/server. Think SpringBoot, Flask, Node.js. You can use any language you like, and store the data in any database you like - the stock items and popular items must be persisted in a database that you can easily reinitialize after each test run. Choose wisely as you will be working from parts of this code base over the next few weeks

Feel free to use any LLM you like to build this system. Github SpecKit might be a good way to go too - steeper learning curve but good to know.

You can run the client and server on your laptop to get results. If you want to have more fun, deploy your server on a remote resource. Make sure it is physically close by if you run the client on your laptop. Or run the client in the same place as your server. 

Submit:

Quality Attributes/Architectural Characteristics Analysis:

Create a .md file in your repo that contains a brief architectural charateristics analysis. (2 points)

First, list the architectural characteristics that the supermarket self checkout system must have. List each characteristic and one or more concrete requirements (eg: performance: it must take less than 1 second to start a tranasction) for that charateristic.
Next list the 3 top charateristics you will prioritize in your implementation. Be explicit about any trade-offs this prioritzation introduces  (eg  caching items in a transaction improves performance and trades off against reliability because scanned items can be lost if a station crashes).
Then upload the results from 2 runs of the load-client against your monolithic server implementation:

with default parameters (1 points)
from using stress mode, ie java -cp out Main --stations=100 --duration=120 (2 points)
Submit a URL for your repo that contains these 2 json files and the quality attributes analysis